Good morning! Or good afternoon!

<Objectives of this course>

In this video I shall be talking about what we
will studying the entire year in this course ----
which is TLE-10 or Introduction To Computer Science 
and the Java Programming Language.

First, my name is Robert Pascual and together
with Mr Oliver Gabor, the two of us will be your
lecturers and your guides to the wonders of
Computer Science and the pleasures of programming.

The subject of Information Technology can roughly be divided into
two disciplines. One discipline is called
Computer Engineering and Computer Engineering
deals mostly with hardware, its design, its manufacture,
and its maintenance.

The other discipline which we will informally call
Software Engineering deals mostly with software.
In college, the program which mostly deals with
software engineering goes under the name computer science.

In computer
science we deal with algoithms, with applications,
how they are built, how they are designed, and
how they are maintained.

Our entire course will thus be roughly divided into
the two areas of computer engineering---which tackles hardware
and software engineering---which tackles hardware.

Naturally, in order to have actual hands-on knowledge of
computer science we need to learn a programming language
and that programming language would be the Java Programming language.

<Hardware and Software>
In the first quarter of the course we shall be concerned
with the following questions?

1. What is hardware? How is hardware related to the
things that we call computers? We will also
discover what are the different forms in which computers
appear today.

2. Given a complete computer system we should be acquainted,
even if at least on a cursory level on what are the
functional parts of the hardware that comprise that system.

3. In software, we will learn about what are the different
kinds of software and how the parts form a complete
comnputer system.

<Software Engineering>

While we cover hardware only during the first
part of the first quarter of the year. Software will
cover almost three quarters of our course.

Our course is mostly concentrated on software and
under that idea we shall be introduced to some
very important concepts of software engineering.

1. We will learn how to write functional specifications
for the simple software that we will build.

2. We shall learn a few design techniques and paradigms
and what are the diagrams that usually go with those
techniques and paradigms.

3. We will also cover the software life cycle and how it
affects the implementations that we create
of the functional specifications that are
required of the software we create.

<Java Language>

Mostly, the ideas of software engineering that we
will be studying we will learn in the context of
the Java Programming Language.

We shall learn how to download the Java SDK from the
internet, how to install it, and how to
set it up. The Java SDK is free to download and
we shall take advantage of that liberty.

We will acquaint ourselves with the very important
Edit-Compile-Debug Cycle of Java and how to manage
that cycle effectively.

And of course, we shall learn how to use Java to write
simple applications for the computer desktop.

<What is expected of you?>

To make full use of this course, what is expected of your?

Because of the COVID-19 situation that we are in, you
are expected to do a lot of things independently and you
shall be encoyuraged to learn on your own.

You need to read books, online and offline, and you
must learn to do independent research.
To help you along, we will provide videos and
materials that should speed you on your
voyage of learning.

You should, of course, work on the activities
that are assigned to you and submit them 
online or as a hard copy. At the moment,
we are still trying to learn how to conduct
distance learning classes and we should expect
a bit of friction and a bit of losing our way
as we do this.

And, certainly, you should write Java Programs when you
are asked to and even when you are not.
Our school has complete facilities for building Java
programs but the COVID-19 restrictions against
face to face meetings may require us
to be a bit more creative when we need to use
the facilities of the school.

Naturally, it is best if you own a computer so
that you can write the Java programs in your own
home but having your own computer is not a requirement.
We will try to find ways of allowing you
to write those programs in our eLearning Center.

<Study Help>
We, the lecturers, and you, the learner need a lot
of cooperation in order to make this distance learning
effective.

Towards this end, we provide some help if you
may have trouble while taking up this course.

1. If needed, we shall provide hard or soft copies of the slides
that are used in this videos.

2. We shall also open a facebook group where you can ask
questions and interact with your classmates and your lecturers.

3. Your lecturers are thinking of opening regular zoom conferences
where you can ask questions of your lecturers and have then answered
for you. Those zoom conferences are not mandatory, they are optional
and if you cannot attend them for one reason or another it is OK.

4. To reach both of us, you can send inquiries and submissions to the
following email address. We would rather that you post
your questions to the facebook group because you may
not be the only person who has that question and it is more
efficient for the lecturers to answer the questions
just once instead of repeating them for each student.

Well, this is it! I hope you enjoy your journey in
the very exciting world of computer science. Have a great day!

 



